Q: I installed the extension, now where do I see monitoring reports?
A: This extension does not provide on its own any report or graphical interface
   to show the working condition of your eZ Publish server. It only exposes some
   indicator values that 'can be used' to monitor the status of the server.
   The actual tool used to query the values and store them / display them / provide
   reports or alerts needs to be set up separately. Since the protocol used to
   expose indicator values is an industry standard (snmp), most monitoring tools
   will do, with a little configuration. OSS tools include nagios, zenoss, munin,
   hyperic and many others.

Q: do you provide plugins for any of those monitoring tools to ease the integration
   of ezsnmpd and the creation of nice looking graphs?
A: currently a config file for PRTG is available, but more are planned

Q: SNMP, MIB, OID, what the hell is this?
A1: please google for "snmp tutorial"
A2: in short:
   SNMP = a protocol devised for monitoring of appliances on a network.
		  Think of it as 'http for monitoring', with the 'snmp manager' acting
		  as the user-agent (browser), and 'snmp agent' acting as the webserver
   OID  = a unique object/characteristic identifier, whose value can be queried.
          These object identifiers consist of numbers separated by decimal points,
          and are organized in a tree
   MIB  = the "database of information" listing the existing OIDs with type,
          description etc. It is stored as a text file with a kludgy syntax.

Q: where do i find the list of indicator values that are available?
A: in the so-called MIB file. It uses a notation that is standard in snmp world:
   ASN.1. It is unfortunately very hard to read by humans, but there are a lot
   of tools that will happily parse it and turn it into something user-friendly

Q: so where is this MIB file? I cannot see it in the distribution
A: it is in fact dynamically generated.
   You can find it at http://my.ezpublish.site/index.php/siteaccess/snmp/mib
   and save it as ezpublish.mib

Q: will this extension implement monitoring probes for mysql/apache/other?
A: no

Q: why?
A: because of the principle of separation of concerns. Every app knows best how
   to monitor its internals, and should not try to delve too deep into others.
   Besides, you can install packages to enable monitoring via SNMP of most
   commonly used software:

   Apache - mod_apache_snmp (http://mod-apache-snmp.sourceforge.net/)

   Mysql - http://www.webnms.com/mysql_agent/index.html
           http://www.masterzen.fr/2009/04/13/introducing-mysql-snmp/
		   http://www.mysql.com/products/enterprise/monitor-features.html

   Postgresql - pgsnmpd (http://pgsnmpd.projects.postgresql.org/)

   Oracle - Oracle Management Agent

Q: can extra indicator values be added from other extensions?
A: it is easily done:
   - take hold of one oid value in the .4 subtree of the eZPublish mib
     where all your new extension indicator values will be positioned
     (ideally every extension should use a separate number for that)
   - create a subclass of eZsnmpdHandler to do what you need
     (2 methdos are needed for basic get functionality, plus one for set)
   - declare your handler class in SNMPHandlerClasses in snmpd.ini

Q: are other snmp agents supported besides the net-snmp one?
A: at the moment only the net-snmp agent can be used to monitor eZPublish
   instances. Any other agent that can be extended via a script-based API
   (as opposed to a C api) might be supported if there is request for it.

Q: why the siteaccess used by the ezSNMPagent.php script cannot be switched
   using the -s option?
A: because the '-s' option is used by the net-snmp agent to signal to the script
   a 'set' command. Use '-a'

Q: can i use a monitoring tool that queries the server via HTTP GET requests
   instead of using snmp?
A: yes. The address to get the values is:
   http://my.server/index.php/siteaccess/snmp/get/$oid
   the output is in plaintext, using the same format as used for communicating
   with the net-snmp subagent (see snmpd.cong man pages).

   If the monitoring tool you installed cannt log-in to eZPublish via POST you
   might disable cecking access permissions to the snmp/get view. But TAKE CARE:
   you should only do so in a separate siteaccess, that has been created for
   that purpose, and that is not accessible to the public, as sensitive information
   might be divulged to everybody otherwise, especially if you enabled the
   'settings handler' in snmpd.ini!

Q: are there disadvantages in querying the server via HTTP GET requests
   instead of using snmp or the command  line php script?
A: YES
   - you will not be able to receive responses if the webserver is down
   - you will not be able to receive responses if the database is down
   - if you query the number of active sessions, the act of requesting
     monitoring values will increase the number of sessions (Heisemberg in action!)

Q: the snmpwalk command times out after a couple of values. What to do?
A: run it with a higher timeout, such as -t5 or -t10
